# listeningspace
Archive of NOAA satellite recordings and decodes by Afroditi Psarra and Audrey Briot

To listen and download the original recordings go to:
https://soundcloud.com/audreybriot/sets/listening-space or https://soundcloud.com/afroditi-psarra/sets/listening-space

Listening Space is an artistic research which explores transmissions ecologies as a means of perceiving the surrounding environment beyond our human abilities. Conceptually the project seeks to define transmissions ecologies as raw material for artistic expression, to understand and re-imagine in poetic means, representations of audio and images broadcasted from space, while regarding knitted textiles as a physical medium for memory storage and archiving.

Listening Space was born during the eTextile Spring Break residency program that took place in  upstate New York at the beginning of April 2019. Driven by our previous explorations in non-verbal communication systems, we set out to explore RF detection, while considering the human body as an interface for sensing the invisible universe that surround us. By investigating the energies that have been harvested by humanity to knit this complex layer, a turbulent sea of radio waves that penetrates the fabric of our everyday lives even if it remains unseen and unheard, we aim to create poetic connotations between textiles-as a means of data detection, collection and archiving, and bodies as agents of power to re-interpret current technologies through handmade crafting techniques. Specifically, the ecologies of transmission that comprise the Radio Spectrum, are no doubt the ultimate expression of the Anthropocene, as they permit the operation of human life as we know it (telecommunications, environmental monitoring, radio astronomy, FM/AM radio etc) and shape our understanding of the planet. In this context the research project Listening Space seeks to explore satellites transmissions, as discrete embodied machines, by observing their liveness - sentience, at a rhythm dictated by their orbit.

Through hands-on experimentation, we sought to intercept the NOAA weather satellites' audiovisual transmissions using Software-Defined-Radio and hand-crafted antennas. This process aligned perfectly with the idea of citizen science that both of us are exploring in our work. The intercepted signals were then knitted into textiles that we named Satellite lkats, as a means of physical archiving of the detection and decoding process. These knitted memory artifacts were created using a hacked domestic double bed knitting machine, and their imagery is comprised by fragments of the audio transmissions, based on gaps and counts. Textiles occupy a central place in Listening Space: we seek to enhance the human capability to sense and to embody the dialogues intercepted between earth and its satellites.

For more info on how we recorded and decoded the satellites take a look at our paper "Listening Space: Satellite Ikats" from ISWC 2019:
https://dl.acm.org/ft_gateway.cfm?id=3346932&ftid=2081939&dwn=1&CFID=104727013&CFTOKEN=d178a695cd9d0700-98D73A51-ADCB-F723-75CA9F7C4E15DCBC
